{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red32\green63\blue248;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c16863\c36078\c98039;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13720\viewh25480\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 project_velocity\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Projecting shifts in habitat for 686 North American marine species under RCP 2.6 and 8.5.\
\
Publication:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl260\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs21\fsmilli10667 \cf2 Morley JW, Selden RL, Latour RJ, Frolicher TL, Seagraves RJ, Pinsky ML (2018) Projecting shifts in thermal habitat for 686 species on the North American continental shelf. PLoS ONE 13(5): e0196127. \cf3 https://doi.org/10.1371/journal. pone.0196127 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Contact:\
James Morley\
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul \ulc2 jwmorley@email.unc.edu\ulnone \
\
Malin Pinsky\
Rutgers University\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/pinskylab/hotWater/blob/master/malin.pinsky@rutgers.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 malin.pinsky@rutgers.edu}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \ulnone Directories\
data: Contains Rdata files used in the R-scripts. These include the raw temperature projection data in the sub-directory \'91Temp proj files\'92 and the formatted temperature projection files in the subdirectory \'91prediction_files_Nov2017\'92. \
\
figures: Contains the figures from the projections project. \
\
\
Analysis workflow\
Note: There are some older scripts here from initial work on this manuscript, which were not ultimately used. This is noted where appropriate. \
\
1_data_allcombine.r\
Combine the trawl survey data together and reformat in preparation for creating climatologies and climate envelope models\
\
1_data_trawlData.R\
An alternative method to combine all the trawl survey data with the \'91trawlData\'92 package. This is the script that was ultimately used for the manuscript.\
\
1.5_merge_hadl_noaa_sst.r\
Fill in missing SST values for a portion of the trawl hauls, using satellite temperature observations from the Hadley NOAA/OI\
\
2_create_climatologies.r\
Only used for an earlier version of the manuscript and not for published version. Because T. Froelicher completed this independently. This created the historic climatology within each survey region based on in situ temperature measurements.\
\
3_calculate_delta.r\
Only used for an earlier version of the manuscript and not for published version. Because T. Froelicher completed this independently. This calculate the delta (i.e., change in temperature) values within each grid cell for each projection year, 2007-2100.\
\
4_climateprojection.r\
Only used for an earlier version of the manuscript and not for published version. Because T. Froelicher completed this independently. This integrates the historic climatology from script 2 with the delta values from script 3 to compute the temperature projections.\
\
4.5_summarize_climprojections.r\
Only used for an earlier version of the manuscript and not for published version. Because T. Froelicher completed this independently. Basic summary statistics and plots for the temperature projections.\
\
5_select_species.r\
Standardizes species names across surveys based on some files that have species name corrections. Also corrects some species names. Drops species/life stages that are not of interest (e.g., larval fish). Picks the species that are ultimately included in the analysis based on frequency of occurence. \
\
Projection_grid.R\
Develops the projection grid based on the resolution of the SODA climate data. This projection grid was used to conduct the future climate projection and to integrate with the bathymetry environmental data in \'91Bathymetry.R\'92.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Bathymetry.R\
Depth data is brought in from GEBCO database and a depth data grid is developed and rugosity is calculated based on depth. Then sediment data is brought in from a data set that was put together elsewhere (contact for that is Becca Selden). Finally, the projection grid was developed based on the SODA climate resolution, in other words, we determined where these three data sources all overlap and are shallower than 400 m. Overall, this script is not cleaned up well. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
5.4_master_haul_file.R\
Merge together a number of files containing the environmental data for hauls, which creates a master file for the trawl-hauls. \
\
6_model_fitting_loop.R\
Fits the niche model to each species and calculates some sdm model evaluation statistics.\
\
7_Prep_Projections.R\
Drop species with poorly fit habitat models and then reformat the region value for conducting projections. \
Then reads in and formats all the climate projection data into a data structure that can be used to predict with the habitat models. Also produces some figures for the climate projection and some code to qaqc the climate data.  \
\
7b_projection_clusterB_PA.R\
Conducts projections based on the probability of occurrence GAM model only (i.e., not what was used in the Plos One paper). The script integrates the habitat models with the climate projection models and then saves the aggregated (20 year time bins) output. This script is activated by a shell script, which was used on a CPU cluster. \
\
7b_projection_clusterB.R\
Conducts projections based on the delta biomass GAM model. The script integrates the habitat models with the climate projection models and then saves the aggregated (20 year time bins) output. This script is activated by a shell script, which was used on a CPU cluster. \
\
8_summarize_projections.R\
Some of Malin\'92s old code from the first round of projections, which were done on a regional basis. This script was not ultimately used on the Plos One (2018) paper. \
\
8.1B_plot_projection_summaries.R\
Some of Malin\'92s old code from the first round of projections, which were done on a regional basis. A bunch of figures are made here with the projections output. This script was not ultimately used on the Plos One (2018) paper. \
\
8.5_summarize_projections_separate_models.r\
Some of Malin\'92s old code from the first round of projections, which were done on a regional basis. This script was not ultimately used on the Plos One (2018) paper. \
\
abundance_model_testing.r\
Tests how much variation/deviance is explained by temperature in abundance GAMs. We did not report these output in the Plos One paper.\
\
MS_figures.R\
Summarizes the projection output and makes the figures used in the Plos One (2018) manuscript.\
\
}